Managing Change Practices
=========================

Choosing which practices to use for managing change are heavily dependent on the
impact the change may have on the current development process. For changes with
small impacts on the development, **Daily meetings** can be used to bring the
issue and change to the team. For changes with large enough impacts that would
stunt the development process, killing the current sprint and re-forming the
sprint in **Sprint Planning meetings** would be most effective. However, for
change that are large, but are not totally disruptive to the development
process, adding the change to **Backlogs** can be effective for future
development and planning.

 

Daily Meetings
--------------

For any small potential changes that may not have a huge impact on the
development process that may occur, they can be easily managed with having daily
meetings throughout the development process. Daily meetings traditionally
consist of sharing with members of the team and stakeholders on discussing what
was completed, any problems and what needs to be completed. This gives
opportunities for any changes that have been encountered by anyone involved in
the meetings to bring it up during meetings and have it dealt with accordingly,
with everyone’s knowledge and approval.

 

Sprint Planning Meetings
------------------------

For large impact changes that may cause the development process to be stunted,
that may occur, can have the current sprint killed for it to be reset with
Sprint Planning Meetings to start anew. Sprint Planning Meetings are where
stakeholders collaborate and plan what user stories to include in a sprint, so
that all members involved know what is happening. As an identified change has
been detected to have stunted all development and discussed during a meeting,
killing the sprint will be the most effective. Although this may cause delays in
the plan, restarting a sprint with Sprint planning meetings will help re-plan
the entire sprint relative to the change involved, so that development can be
continued.

 

Product Backlog
---------------

For small changes and large changes that do not affect the development process ,
a product backlog can be used to track all changes, so that all stakeholders are
able to view it and in the next sprint it can be brought up for discussion. A
Product backlog is produced at the start of planning a project, which contains a
collection of prioritized requirements which are done by negotiations between
stakeholders. As “Scrum’s ability to respond to change has been one of its
strongest assets in this environment and the backlog’s ability to evolve will
make it a valuable addition to the team’s process” (Dulock & Long, 2015). So all
changes would have no real impact on current development. All changes would be
recorded for them to be easily tracked and for them to be brought up in the next
sprint planning meetings to address them. (Hazrati, 2004)

 

Reference
---------

Hazrati, V. (2008). Managing Change requests in Scrum. Retrieved from
http://tolerosolutions.com/5-ways-agile-scrum-can-help-change-management/

 

Dulock, M. & Long, H (2015). Digital collections are a sprint, Not a Marathon:
Adapting Scrum Project Management Techniques to Library Digital Initiatives.
Information technology and Libraries, Vol 34, No 4.

<http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.aut.ac.nz/10.6017/ital.v34i4.5869> 
