Planning and Tracking Practices
===============================

 

The use of SCRUM **Sprint Planning meetings** and  artifacts would be key
practices of SCRUM that can be used in planning and tracking. Artifacts include:

-   **Burndown Charts**

-   **Sprint Burndown Chart**

-   **Product Backlog**

-   **Sprint Backlog**

Because of the nature of this case study, having the first-half of the
development process dedicated to redeveloping the current software, most
requirements of the current software will not change. This would require a much
more detailed process of Planning ahead and tracking that any potential
functionalities are consistent with the requirements, otherwise this would force
a chain reaction of problems in the future. The second-half of the case study is
dedicated to extending the current functionalities, so a normal approach of
planning and tracking in SCRUM would be required.

 

Sprint Planning Meetings
------------------------

At the beginning of each Sprint a meeting, where stakeholders collaborate and
plan what user stories to include in a sprint, so that all members involved know
what is happening. Plans should all be resolved by the end of the meeting, so as
to prevent as much hand-wringing as possible from the project. (Schwaber, 2004)

 

Burndown Chart
--------------

Burndown charts is a line chart that tracks the development’s work done to date.
It shows the expected rate of work which was planned and puts it against an
actual rate of work that has been completed so far. This will help for tracking
the current state of the project, and if the team should increase their rate of
work or not. The resulting chart shows the collision of reality with what was
planned at the start of the project. (Schwaber, 2004)

 

Sprint Burndown Chart
---------------------

A Sprint burndown chart is a sub-artifact of a burndown chart, where it will
only show the rate of work that has been completed for only a sprint, by using
an Effort value for user stories within a sprint. This resulting chart is a more
highly-detailed burndown chart, that shows the amount of effort that is being
done. This will help in tracking the work during sprints much more effectively,
because for example user stories that are not having any work done will be
displayed, which will cause a necessary action to be completed to make sure that
work is done.

 

Product Backlog
---------------

A Product backlog is produced at the start of planning a project, which contains
a collection of prioritized requirements which are done by negotiations between
stakeholders. Although requirements will dictate how the project will be
completed, the product backlog is dynamic, so change will be frequent. In other
words, this product backlog will help plan future tasks to be completed with
minimum changes to the plan, if no changes are of great size. (Schwaber, 2004)

 

Sprint Backlog
--------------

A Sprint backlog is produced at the start of each sprint, and is a sub-artifact
of a product backlog, which contains only the user stories to be completed in a
sprint, which are then each converted into tasks for the development team to
complete. This will help spread out and plan the work needed to be done in a
sprint.

 
-

References
----------

Schwaber, K. (2004). Agile Project Management with Scrum. Microsoft Press.
